{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Like many people I have an ever-growing library of photoshop brushes. My all-time favourites are those that have a grunge feeling to them. At first I only collected high resolution photoshop brushes, but ever since I started my own design blog at <a href="http://www.fudgegraphics.com">www.fudgegraphics.com</a> I made my own and shared them with the design community. So it is my pleasure to release the "Messy Watercolour Brushes 1" exclusively on Smashing Magazine.\
\
The set includes 12 brushes ranging from 2156px up to 2294px. I suggest experimenting with the brushes to discover the full potential of this set . Open a blank canvas and start painting on individual layers. Play with colours and blending modes until you're happy with the result. What I like most about watercolour brushes is the endless opportunities. You could complete a design using only the brushes. Or you could overlay them on text or vectors to give them a more organic feel. You may even combine them with different gradients. Whatever you do I hope you have fun with them. For more Hi-Res photoshop brushes please visit the <a href="http://www.fudgegraphics.com/category/freebies/">Freebies Section</a> on fudgegraphics.com.\
\
Unfortunately people stuck on Photoshop versions prior to CS1 won't be able to use these brushes as they are simply too large. Don't worry though. The source files used to make them will be released shortly on Smashing Magazine as a texture pack."}